# aadl2uppaal

UPPAAL Model Generator From AADL Model

Version: 0.1

Our tool is a framework that can automatically generate UPPAAL model from the input AADL Model.

The tool has two parts: i) XMI parser for AADL model, ii) AADL2UPPAAL Translator.

* XMI parser for AADL model
	* Input: AADL model in aaxl format generated by OSATE2
	* Output: AADL modle instance of our AADL meta-model

 This step parses the generated aaxl file into AADL model follows our AADL meat-model. The generated model can be used as the input of AADL2UPPAAL translator.

* AADL2UPPAAL Translator
	* Input: A instance of our AADL meta-model              
    * Output: UPPAAL model that can be verified by UPPAAL-SMC 

 A translator that can transform the AADL model into UPPAAL model. Note that we only transform a subset of AADL constructs that have a strong correlation with uncertainty-aware hybrid features.

## The running environment:

   We have tested this framework under the following environments. However,
   it is expected to work under Windows as well.

   1. Operating System: Linux 2.6.24 
   2. Pre-installed software:
       * OSATE 2.2.1 (include BLESS plugin)
       * JAVA 1.8.0
       * UPPAAL 4.1.19

## The structure of the src folder:

   The aadl2upaal folder in src has the following five directories and one file.
	
* Application.java : entry of this program. You can use it to run the transform.
* aadl : meta-model of our subset AADL implemented using JAVA class. 
* parser : parse AADL model in xml format into instance of our meta-model.
* uppaal : meta-model of UPPAAL implemented using JAVA class.
* visitor : both transform as Transform2U and UPPAAL generator as UppaalWriter in this directory. Transform2U contains all transform rules in transform process. UppaalWriter generates UPPAAL model in xml formate that can be readed by UPPAAL-SMC.
* examples : This directory contains the original CTCS example (MA_with_uncertainty.xml). 
   

## Usage:
Run the Application in src directory
```	
	java Application <aaxl input file>  <uppaal output file>
```	

- aaxl input file: The AADL model in aaxl format generated by OSATE2.
- uppaal output file: The result file of the tranformation.
  
For example, when running our train example, use the following command:
 ```
	java Application src/examples/MA_with_uncertainty.xml
	  src/examples/MA_with_U_uppaal.xml
```
This program will generate a corresponding UPPAAL file as MA_with_U_uppaal to AADL model as  MA_with_uncertainty.
 
## License
license can be found in [license](LICENCES.txt)

Copyright (c) 2016 Yongxiang Bao.
